.TH GLOB 3 "June 28, 1986"
.AT 3
.SH NAME
glob \- expand meta-characters in file names
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B "int glob(pattern, buffer, size)
.B "char *pattern;
.B "char *buffer;
.B "unsigned int size;
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Glob
expands the meta-characters *, ? and [...] in
.I pattern
and copies the file name(s) that match the pattern to 
.I buffer ,
whose length is given by
.I size .
.PP
Before expansion is attempted, the pattern is processed as follows:
an initial
.I ~user
is replaced by
.I user's
home directory, an initial ~ is replaced by the contents of $HOME,
and an initial
.I $variable
is replaced by the contents of the environment variable by that name.
The universal quoting character \e can be prefixed to *, ? and [, to
initial ~ or $, and to itself to prevent the special meaning.
.PP
The expansion algorithm used is believed to give exactly the same
results as the expansion of meta-characters by the Bourne shell
.I sh (1),
except for the different quoting mechanism and the expansion of ~ and $.
The files are sorted.
.SH RETURN VALUE
.I Glob
returns the number of files matching the pattern that could be
transferred to the buffer.
If no files match, the return value is 0 but the pattern is copied to
the buffer after expansion of ~, $ and \e-quotes.
.SH SEE ALSO
sh(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Guido van Rossum, CWI, Amsterdam <guido@mcvax.uucp>
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
There are no explicit diagnostics.
If there is not enough memory to hold the internal lists of
partially-matching files, not all matching files may be found.
If the buffer has not enough space to hold all matching files, as many
as will fit are transferred to it.
If
.I $variable
has no value, the empty string is substituted.
If no expansion can be found for ~ or
.I ~user ,
it is left in the pattern unchanged.
If 
.SH BUGS
There should be an interface to the ``raw'' globbing algorithm, which
can return an arbitrary number of files in a ``malloced'' structure and
does not do ~ or $ expansion or \e-quoting.
.PP
The code uses the Berkeley directory-reading package, so in order to
port it to v7 or sys5 you'll need to get hold of a public domain
re-implementation of that package.
.PP
The name is a relict from ancient times.
